So in the Navy and even in the civilian world, there's a list of kind
of suicidal risks that you would see someone particular participate
in. That may be a trigger or something to observe, but the common denominator
for all suicide or death by suicides is loss, and that could
be loss of a relationship. Could be loss of status. Money rank could
be lost of ah, pet could be loss of freedom. Um, but really looking
at those things and taking it serious when you start seeing those
symptoms, whether they're giving things away, whether they're different
than they were before, Just because somebody is happy or acting
happy doesn't mean they're not suicidal. In fact, sometimes people
act happy when they have a plan to end their life because they feel
like it's almost over. So there is some very common misconceptions
about that. But looking for lost an individual's life is a trigger that
I would do as a professional Azam counseling somebody and talking
to them and then being forthright and asking them saying something
along the lines of Hey, you know, people who have this circumstance
that happened to him. Whatever it is, sometimes they think about killing
themselves, that something you've thought about and bringing it
to the point and you may get a response of No, that's not anything
that I'm thinking about or you're crazy or, you know, thank you for
asking. I have had thoughts which will then open up a dialogue, that
we can have a real conversation.